The central problem that this project is designed to accomplish is forecasting future sales. Forecasting sales is extremely essential for retailers to control cost. Depending on the type of retailer, the smaller the profit margin for a given market, the more critical on cost control. Optimizing stock, as quantity of merchandise available on the premise of the store or warehouse, also means better utilization of shelf space and greater variety of products to be sold at retail or online for maximizing sales.

The sales forecasting of the project is based on one of the largest software firms in Russia, 1C Company. With the forecasting report, the company can make precise decision on procurement to reduce cost and prevent overstocking. The data used for the forecasting is contributed by the Coursera course organizer who created the Kaggle competition “Predict Future Sales”. The training data is the historical daily sales record. The sales record is individual entries that contain date, price, count, product ID, category ID, and shop ID. The approach of solving the problem is to explore the sales data and find correlation between sales to region and categories of items, then to determine how sale changes in terms of time. The data that contains strings, such as product name, category name, and shop name are all in original language, Russian, and translation of the string to English may be required for better interpretation.

The deliverables for the project would include everything mentioned above, the code, written report on the problem solving, and a slide deck of the report. The code will include EDA, statistical inference, and machine learning maneuvers.
